Add Curated Module v2 guide to /run-on-lido (#881)
lidofinance/docs: run-on-lido/curated-module/penalties.md

---
sidebar_position: 8
---

# ⚡ Penalties

CMv2 uses a bond-based penalty system. When your validators underperform or violate protocol rules, the protocol deducts from your bond. Repeated or severe violations can reduce your stake allocation or result in removal from the module.

## Penalty types

### General delayed penalty

> Applied manually by the CMC in case of EL stealing (MEV, priority fees), underperformance, or in other cases of protocol rule violations that are not reported automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reported manually by the CMC in case of EL stealing (MEV, priority fees), underperformance, or in other cases of protocol rule violations that are not reported automatically.
```

- If neither side acts, the Node Operator will be able to unlock the bond after 60 days.

### Late exit penalty

Applied automatically when a validator is not exited within the allowed time after an exit request. The allowed exit delay is 4 frames for all types according to the [Validator Exits Standard NO Protocol](https://github.com/lidofinance/documents-and-policies/blob/main/Lido%20on%20Ethereum%20Standard%20Node%20Operator%20Protocol%20-%20Validator%20Exits.md).

The **late exit penalty** charged at withdrawal for a 2,048 ETH validator is 0.64 ETH for PO and 0.32 ETH for all other types. This charge can be reduced linearly if the validator's balance is below 2,048.

### Slashing penalty

Applied manually by the CMC when one of your validators is slashed on the consensus layer. The CMC proposes the bond deduction via an EasyTrack motion after the slashing is finalized and losses can be calculated.

## How penalties are applied

Most penalties are applied at the time of validator withdrawal. This means your bond is not reduced the moment a penalty is recorded. The deduction happens when the validator exits.

> The only exception is the General Delayed Penalty. Once reported and confirmed through an Easy Track motion, the penalty amount plus a fixed fee is immediately locked in `Accounting.sol`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only exception is the General Delayed Penalty. Once reported, the penalty amount plus a fixed fee is immediately locked in `Accounting.sol`. In case of further confirmation via EasyTrack and no compensation from the Node Operator, the locked bond is burned.
```
